Let's look at nested lists and then
go into more detail on code style.
Earlier, we concatenated lists of even and odd numbers,
and that produced a new list called numbers,
With all the items from both lists. Let's go
back to that earlier file, number_lists.py.
And we're going to delete all the code after line 7.
Alright, so at line 5, we concatenate even
and odd. Run the program, just to remind ourselves of what it did.
What it does.
Hopefully that was fairly straightforward.
But see if you can guess what this code will do.
I'm going to make a change here.
Firstly, I'll surround even and odd in square brackets,
but then I'm gonna change the plus,
and make that a comma instead.
So what do you think the output will be?
Pause the video and come back when you think you've
worked it out, without running the program.
So let's run the program to see what it does produce.
And you can see what it's done there, in fact, it's
produced a list containing two lists.  I've deliberately
been a bit vague, when talking about items in the list.
I haven't said things like list of strings or list of ints.
You can store either of those types in a list,
but you can store just about anything else as well.
Here, the items in our numbers list are themselves lists.
This next example, I'm about to type in, uses a for loop
to print each list, then an inner for loop to print
the contents of each inner list.
So let's start with some code.
So I'm gonna type for number_list in numbers
So I'm working on the outer loop at the moment.
Then on line 9, just going to print
number_list.
So in the outer loop,
We iterate over numbers.
number_list gets each of the members of numbers.
So it's bound to each of the two lists,
in turn. Then we can use an inner loop, to iterate over those two lists.
So let's do that.
So under the print on line 10, for value in number_list
colon, print(value).
value was bound to each of the even numbers, first time
around the loop, then to each of the odd numbers.
Run the program.
We've confirmed that that does happen. So we can see the
first there, the even list and the four individual
values from that list and the same for the odd list, down the bottom.
So this is an important concept.
So let's see another example to see it in action.
This one will also show how to create nested lists using a literal.
To do this, we need to create a new file,
new python file, called spam.
Let's go ahead and do that.
So I'm pasting the list that we'll be using, but don't try to
type it in just yet, because it won't all fit on my screen.
I'm going to refer back to that Python style guide, PEP 8, in a moment.
First, though, Here's the list.
Alright. So that's horrible.
I'll go back to the start of the line.
It really is hard for you to read on the video.
And it's also hard to me to work with in my IDE.
I'm going to switch to my browser.
Let's see what the Python style guide has to say about lists.
Now, if you haven't bookmarked the style guide page yet, just type PEP 8 into Google.
That first result here Will take you,
or should take you, to the style guide.
Once you're there, use your browser's search, which is
usually Ctrl-F (Cmd-F on a Mac) and search for list.
This first entry here is the one we want.
I'm gonna close down that search pane, to make a bit more space.
So make sure you get to the first occurrence of list, as I've done here.
The second one is talking about an argument list.
So there's two style guides shown here.
And in both cases, the opening bracket is at the end of the line.
The items in the construct are each on a separate line.
Where the two examples differ is in the position of the closing bracket.
Now, it can be either indented to the same level as the start of the items.
That's the example in the first box.
Or it can appear against the left margin.
And that's the second example.
Right, so let's go back to our code.
Modern IDEs often have a way to reformat your code for you.
It's not always perfect, but let's see what IntelliJ makes of that long line.
So you can find the reformat code option in the code menu.
This one down here, there's also a shortcut,
which you can see, that's Ctrl-Alt-L on windows.
And it's actually the same for Linux.
I believe it's Cmd-Alt-L for Mac.
But you can check that by going to the code menu,
and you'll see the relevant keyboard shortcut.
Now be careful on some Linux distros.
Ubuntu versions, before 18,
use that key combination to lock the screen.
So I'm going to choose that option to reformat
the screen, to reformat the code, rather.
And you can see that we've got an improvement there,
but it still doesn't conform to the style guide.
The IDE's concentrated on keeping the line lengths
short, but it hasn't put each list on a new line.
So what we'll do is split the list up and then reformat the code again.
I'm gonna add a long break here after the first left square bracket.
I'm also going to add one just before the last
right square bracket.
And then for each entry, each list effectively, after the comma,
I'm going to press ENTER to put it on a separate line.
So this one here.
You can see me going through, doing it to each one,
making sure that each is on a separate line.
You can see we've got a list on each line.
I'm going to use the reformat option again.
You saw that I needed to do that,
because things still weren't quite right.
There are some that weren't indented correctly.
So notice now that the first item starts on line
2 rather than immediately after the opening left
square bracket on line one.
Also note that each item is also indented 4 spaces.
So I suggest you always start a new line for
the first item, if it's enclosed in brackets.
If it's something like a list,
in other words.  Now to see what I said you shouldn't do,
let's open up buy_computer.
So notice that each item lines up with start of computer on line 1.
So what you shouldn't do is something like this.
Under indenting, which we're doing here, the other
items, is only acceptable if you don't have an item
immediately after the opening bracket,
so I'll reformat the code there.
And we'll go back to spam.py again.
So you may have noticed, in the PEP 8
guide we were just looking at, that the
last item in the list ended with a comma.
I'm going to add a comma here, to our last entry on line 9.
Now, the comma is technically redundant.
Python will ignore it, but it can make the list easier to work with.
We can add a new item to the list,
without having to edit that last line.
Now you can also rearrange the list without getting an error.
So making sure that my cursor is positioned on line 9, which it is.
I can do an Alt-Shift-Up to move that line up in the lists.
Now, the code's still valid, which it
wouldn't have been without that extra comma.
I know it's a small thing, but if you see redundant
commas at the end of lists and other structures,
now you know why.
It's also discussed further in the
"When to use trailing commas" section of the style guide.
In fact, Google's style guide recommends always
including that trailing comma, as long as the last item
isn't immediately before a closing bracket.
Let's swing back to the browser, noting those last commas there,
that I was talking about. Ok, I'll open a new tab,
and I'll paste in a link to the Google style guide.
So you might want to bookmark that as well.
And I've stored the link in the resources
section for this video as well.
Very useful document to look at.
All right.
So moving on, in the next video we're
going to look at processing this list.
See you in the next video.